## FrendZy Mini Social Network

FrendZy is a web based mini social networking app that encompasses the basic social network functionalities such as user login and creation, alongside profile creation as well as the capability to connect with other users on the website based on the friend request and acceptance model.

## Task and Solution

**Task**

Create a mini social network. The application should have features like:-

路 Users should be able to sign up/sign in, and create a profile for themselves.

路 Search for other users.

路 View other users' profiles & make them friends/unfriend them.

路 View a list of mutual friends between users. A mutual friend is a user who is a friend of two other users who may or may not know each other.


**Solution**

The solution to the task at hand that I chose upon was to create a web application that enabled users to create an accout and access the platform through which they can further interact with the other users by sending them connection requests which can be declined or accepted by user on the other side. This platform would also be able to list out mutual friends and also the friends list of each user.

The backend of the web application and build using nodejs and express with all major operations being performed through the use of API calls from the frontend, this enables a higher degree of security which when later combined with the Json Web Token based authentication can prevent access to API by means of simple frontend routing as well as invalid login.

Username was chosen as unique parameter differenciating each user, and checking for duplicate usernames was to performed during the profile creation alongside email validity and password length check.

A search bar was also implemented in order to enable users to search for each other and send connection requests and also to unfriend/cancel any existing connection. Users were given full control of the connection request and acceptance system.]

The list of friends of one particular user as well the mutual friends between two users were generated by comparing the friendslist of the two users at the backend, and this list was forwarded onto the frontend for display.

## Video link of Application Demonstration

[Video Demonstration of FrendZy-Mini Social Network](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ReDzQ1O4p57taIZ4nM5dvsOr1P0vKks7/view?usp=sharing)

## Technological Stack [MERN]

 - Frontend : React
	 - The frontend UI was developed using the React Library for JS, since it offered an ease of customisation and control of the DOM.
	 
 - Backend : Nodejs and Express
	 - The backend was built out a combination of *nodejs* and *express* with a majority of the database operation handled via various API endpoints built using *express* , the CRUD operations to the the Mongo Database was done through the use of the *mongoose* library.
	 
 - Database : Mongo DB Atlas
	 - Mongo DB's Cloud based Atlas cluster based database was used for storage and manipulation of user data, where each document was representative of an individual user.

 
## Application Features
 - **User Creation** : The application features a user creation window which checks for duplicated userids and emails as well as ensured email validity checks and a password length/confirmation check with each error input providing a prompt to the user in regards to the error made.
		 - *The hashing of password was performed using the bcrypt package inorder to ensure secure password transfer.*
		 
 - **Profile Creation** : Upon signing up to the platform, the user would be greeted with a profile creation windows that would ask for basic details such as a profile image url, profile description, the user's date of birth and their gender of which the profile image url and description were compulsory parameters.
		 
 - **User Login** : The user login mechanism makes use of a backend authorization API which checks for both the validity of a username as well the valid password check prompting the user about the error in the same. The login API also returns a JWT authorization token which is then used in conjucntion with the username in the subsequent API calls made to the backend.
 - *Logging out a particular user in accomplished through removal of the JWT token from the session store which prohibits all further API calls and prevent the user from performing any potential action on the platform*
 
 - **User Searches** : The application also features a search bar that allows the authenticated user to search for a particular user on the platform and at the same time initiate a friend request or perform a action depending on their current connection state.
 
 - **Connection Model**: The connection between users were handled using the following model.
		 
|Current Connection Status| Operation(s) Available |
|--|--|
|Not connected?|Send Connection Request  |
|Connection Request Sent?|Cancel Connection Request|
|Connection Request Recieved?|Accept/Decline Connection Request|
|Connected?|Unfriend User|

The user had the ability to search up a particular user using the search bar and perform the required action depending upon their connection status at the moment.

 - **Friends and Mutual Friends View** : Upon searching for a particular user, the current user could see the list of friends that the requested user has as well as their mutual friends.



## Running the application

 **Running the Backend server**
 1. Clone the github repository `https://github.com/AshminJayson/FrendZy.git`
 2. Change directory `cd FrendZy`
 3. Install required npm packages at server side by running `npm install`
 4. Create a .env file with the following lines containing the bcrypt hash, JWT token and Mongo Credentials
	  `SALT_ROUNDS=10`
	  `JWT_ACCESS_TOKEN='4df6db4894515389961367f37e7e8d0e76c90c398b085f8748202b2bc7cc13fa7229f6755846fea1869e5077996f65ba2bfadfeb35c53dddfafd8f7f9f43ec32'`
	  `MONGO_USERNAME='frendzyadmin'`
	  `MONGO_PASSWORD='frendzyadmin'`
   5. Run the backend server via  `npm run start` 
 
 **Ensure that the server is running on port 8082 else the API end points will need to be modified**
  
**Running the Frontend Application**
 1. Switch to the front end directory from FrendZy  `cd frenzy`
 2. Install required npm packages via  `npm install`
 3. Run the front end application via `npm run dev`  ( or  `npm run build` followed by `npm run preview`)


